---
layout: post
title: "Book Notes – Becoming Steve Jobs"
---

# {{ page.title }}

A couple of highlights from Becoming Steve Jobs.

![Book Cover of Becoming Steve Jobs](/images/posts/becoming-steve-jobs.jpg)

Sculley made clear that he would take the company in a more “market-driven”
direction. Apple would now respond to the demands of its customers, instead of
dictating to the market, as Steve had tried to do. Product decisions would be
led by the sales and marketing teams, not the engineers. (p90)

…he made little progress in steering the group toward consensus. His one clear
conclusion – “The delivery date is a line in the sand” – registered as what it
turned out to be: an unattainable fiat. His team seemed smart, passionate, and
intelligent; but it also seemed young, naive, unfocused, and in desperate need
of a leader more decisive than Steve… For years, Jobs had been criticised by
Scott, Sculley, Markkula, Woz, and others as being a divisive and impulsive
manager who sowed chaos unnecessarily, delivered products late, gave unclear
and shifting directions, and advanced his own ideas at the expense of the
corporation. (p101-102)

Remember how he wanted the group at the first Pebble Beach offsite to decide on
NeXT’s top priority: a great machine, on-time delivery, or a price tag under
$3,000? It was the wrong question. NeXT absolutely needed to do all three
things. But Steve couldn’t keep his company focused on what mattered when he
couldn’t focus himself efficiently. (p105)

Creating a perfect cube with true sharp angles required expensive custom
moulds… also insisted that the case be made from magnesium… Designing a
computer laden with details like these made building it for $3,000 absolutely
impossible. “The business plan… called for a cube whose material cost was fifty
dollars, without the motherboard… The paint job alone cost fifty dollars.” … He
added an unnecessary level of complexity, meaning yet more money spent for more
engineers working more hours to accommodate a design that contributed nothing
meaningful to the final product. (p110-111)

“I think that was one of  the key changes when he went back to Apple. He was
more open to the talent of others, to be inspired and challenged by that
talent, but also to the idea of inspiring them  to do amazing things he knew he
couldn’t do himself.” (p173)

“But how can he be a turnaround expert… when he eats his lunch alone in his
office, with food served to him on china that looks like it came from
Versailles?” (p201)

“His decisiveness was so different than the crew that had been there… no
sending things off to some marketing exec somewhere for approval, no vetting by
some committee. In the old regime, you never knew who was making the decision.
With Steve it was totally different. It was him and me.” (p219)

It was the first step of a leader who would now progress _only_ in steps, not
by leaps and bounds. “He was so focused… he was intense and both patient and
impatient at the same time.” Steve had begun to move incrementally. (p221)

Collins believes this restlessness is far more important and powerful than
simple ambition or raw intelligence. It is the foundation of resilience, and
self motivation. It is fuelled by curiosity, the ache to build something
meaningful, and a sense of purpose to make the most of one’s entire life.
(p295)

“The narrative that was created around Steve 1.0 has dominated,”  says Collins.
“That’s partly because the story of a man who matured slowly into a seasoned
leader is less interesting. Learning how to have disposable cash flow, and how
to pick the right people, and growing, and rounding off the sharp edges, and
not merely acting strange – that’s not as interesting! But all that personality
stuff is just the packaging, the window dressing. What’s the truth of your
ambition? Do you have the humility to continually grow, to learn from your
failures and get back up? Are you utterly relentless for your cause, ferocious
for your cause? Can you channel your intensity and intelligence and energy and
talents and gifts and ideas outward into something that is bigger and more
impactful than you are? That’s what great leadership is about.” (p324)
